---
layout: paper
title: "A Graph Random Walk Method for Calculating Time-of-Flight Charge Mobility in Organic Semiconductors from Multiscale Simulations"
year: "2024"
shortref: "Chen, van der Hoorn, Baumeier, arXiv (2024)"
nickname: "grw"
journal: "arXiv"
volume: 
issue: 
pages:  
authors: "Zhongquan Chen, Pim van der Hoorn, Bjoern Baumeier"
image: /assets/images/papers/grw.svg
redirect_from: 
fulltext: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2405.15836
pdflink: /assets/pdfs/chen-GRW-2024.pdf
github: 
pmid: 
pmcid: 
f1000: 
doi: 
dryad_doi: 
figshare_doi: 
altmetric_id: 
category: paper
# Note: 'published' is a Jekyll keyword and does not refer to whether the paper is published, but rather to whether this Markdown should be part of the rendered site.
published: true
preprint: false
embargo: false	
peerreview: true
review: true
tags: [multiscale models, charge transport]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Abstract 

We present a graph random walk (GRW) method for the study of charge transport properties of complex molecular materials in the time-of-flight regime. The molecules forming the material are represented by the vertices of a directed weighted graph, and the charge carriers are random walkers. The edge weights are rates for elementary jumping processes for a charge carrier to move along the edge and are determined from a combination of the energies of the involved vertices and an interaction strength. Exclusions are built into the random walk to account for the Pauli exclusion principle. In time-of-flight experiments, charge carriers are injected into the material and the time until they reach a collecting electrode is recorded. In this setting, our GRW approach allows direct evaluation of the expected hitting time of the collecting nodes in the graph in terms of a typically sparse, linear system, thereby avoiding numerically cumbersome and potentially fluctuations-prone methods based on explicit time evolution from solutions of a high-dimensional system of coupled ordinary differential equations (the Master Equation) or from kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC). We validate the GRW approach by conducting numerical studies of charge dynamics of single and multiple carriers in diffusive and drift-diffusive regimes using a surrogate lattice model. The surrogate model allows varying types and strengths of energetic disorder from the reference baseline. Comparison with results from the Master Equation confirms the theoretical equivalence of both approaches also in numerical implementations. We further show that KMC results show substantial deviations due to inadequate sampling. All in all, we find that the GRW method provides a powerful alternative to the more commonly used methods without sampling issues and with the benefit of making use of sparse matrix methods.
